schema manager (#1)
makinacorpus/php-query-builder: docs/content/query/schema.md

# Schema introspection and alteration

## The schema manager

:::warning
This is experimental work-in-progress and API will change.
:::

The schema manager is an object that allows you to introspect and alter your
database schema.

Once you have a functional bridge instance, you may fetch the *schema manager* instance:

```php
use MakinaCorpus\QueryBuilder\Bridge\Bridge;

\assert($bridge instanceof Bridge);

$schemaManager = $bridge->getSchemaManager();
```

`$schemaManager` will be an instance of `MakinaCorpus\QueryBuilder\Schema\SchemaManager`.

## Schema introspection

The schema manager allows reading the current schema:

>  - read table data,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - read table definitions,
```

At the first read, I thought we can retrieve rows from table

 - read table columns data,
 - read table foreign key and reverse foreign key data.

Other implementations will come later.

:::warning

> When possible, this API uses the `information_schema` tables, nevertheless each database vendor
> has its own dialect, even when considering the information schema. Please be aware that each

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When possible, this API uses the `information_schema` tables. Nevertheless each database vendor
has its own dialect, even when considering the information schema. Keep in mind that each
```

vendor will apply its own access control over information it gives back when reading those

> catalogs, and result may vary depending upon the current user access rights.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
catalogs. Result may vary depending upon the current user access rights.
```

:::

First, you may want to list databases:

```php
$databases = $schemaManager->listDatabases();
// $databases is a string array, each value is a database name.
```

Then get a list of schemas:

```php
$schemas = $schemaManager->listSchemas('my_database');
// $schemas is a string array, each value is a schema name.
```

:::info
All schema manager methods take a mandatory `$database` parameter, and an optional
`$schema` parameter: schemas are namespaces inside a database and are not isolated
from each other, you can work with the full database at once.

Default value for `$schema` is always `public`, which is the default name for at
least PostgreSQL when you create a database from scratch.
:::

:::warning
MySQL doesn't support schemas, this parameter will always be ignored when working
with it, and `listSchemas()` will always return a single value which is `public`.
:::

> Then fetch some table list:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then fetch table list for a particular database/schema:
```

```php
foreach ($schemaManager->listTables('my_database', 'my_schema') as $tableName) {
    // $tableName is a string
}
// $databases is a string array, each value is a database name.
```

And now, you may also load table information this way:

```php

> $table = $schemaManager->getTable('my_database', 'my_table', 'my_schema');

Reviewer: It is a bit confusing to have the 'table' argument before the 'schema'. I understand why you did this, but it is weird to read

Reviewer: May be an intermediate object like "Schema" could solve this ?

```php
$mySchema = $schemaManager->getTable('my_database', 'my_schema');
$table = $mySchema->getTable('my_table');

Author: A schema is more or less a namespace, and tables can have relations across different schemas. Most people in real life simply use a unique schema, which is most of the time the default one (`public` in PostgreSQL). Most people won't use the `$schema` argument. That's why it's after.
